docs(self-hosted): experimental external kafka (#11847)
getsentry/sentry-docs: develop-docs/self-hosted/experimental/external-kafka.mdx

    KAFKA_SSL_CA_PATH:
    KAFKA_SSL_CERT_PATH:
    KAFKA_SSL_KEY_PATH:
    KAFKA_SASL_MECHANISM: "PLAIN" # Valid options are PLAIN, SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512.
    KAFKA_SASL_USERNAME: "username"
    KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD: "password"
```

If you encounter any failing startup, try to use `consumer` instead of `rust-consumer`.

## Relay

Modify your `relay/config.yml` file like so:

```yaml
processing:
  kafka_config:
    - {name: "bootstrap.servers", value: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"}
    - {name: "message.max.bytes", value: 50000000} # 50MB
    - {name: "security.protocol", value: "PLAINTEXT"}
    - {name: "sasl.mechanism", value: "PLAIN"}
    - {name: "sasl.username", value: "username"}
    - {name: "sasl.password", value: "password"}
    - {name: "ssl.ca.location", value: "/path/to/ca.pem"}
    - {name: "ssl.certificate.location", value: "/path/to/client.pem"}
    - {name: "ssl.key.location", value: "/path/to/client.key"}
```

## Vroom

As of the time of writing, Vroom does not support any kind of authentication.

Modify your `docker-compose.yml` file like so:

```yaml
vroom:
  # ...
  environment:
    # ...

>     SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_PROFILING: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
>     SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_OCCURRENCES: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"

Author: ```suggestion
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_PROFILING: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_OCCURRENCES: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_SPANS: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
```

```

When [vroom#530](https://github.com/getsentry/vroom/pull/530) is merged, you can use authentication. You will need to modify your `docker-compose.yml` file like so:

```yaml
vroom:
  # ...
  environment:
    # ...

>     SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_PROFILING: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
>     SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_OCCURRENCES: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"

Author: ```suggestion
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_PROFILING: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_OCCURRENCES: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_SPANS: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
```

sidebar_title: External Kafka
sidebar_order: 91
---

<Alert title="Important" level="warning">
    These are community-contributed docs. Sentry does not officially provide support for self-hosted configurations beyond the default install.
</Alert>

Kafka plays a very significant role on Sentry's infrastructure, from ingesting to processing events until they end up on ClickHouse or filesystem for permanent storage (which also depends on your event retention days). Since Kafka requires very heavy resources on the server host, and some infrastructure already have a Kafka cluster set up, it is possible to use an external Kafka cluster for Sentry.

Sentry (the company) itself uses a Kafka cluster on production with a very tailored setup, especially for authentication. Some Kafka configuration options (such as `SASL_SSL` security protocol) might not be available for some services, but since everything is open source, you are encouraged to contribute to implement those missing things.

If you are using authentication, make sure that the user is able to create new topics. As of now, there is no support for prefixed topic name.

<Alert title="Note" level="info">

>     After changing configuration files, re-run the <code>./install.sh</code> script, to rebuild and restart the containers. See the <Link to="/self-hosted/#configuration">configuration section</Link> for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After changing the configuration files, re-run the <code>./install.sh</code> script to rebuild and restart the containers. See the <Link to="/self-hosted/#configuration">configuration section</Link> for more information.
```

Author: Should be changed on other places as well. I don't seem to remember of who wrote it in the first place.

</Alert>

## Sentry

Sentry uses the confluent-kafka library, which leverages the [default Kafka config from librdkafka](https://github.com/confluentinc/librdkafka/blob/master/CONFIGURATION.md). Modify your `sentry.conf.py` file like so:

> ```python

Reviewer: Should we put these in the example config file too?

# DEFAULT_KAFKA_OPTIONS variable is already defined in sentry.conf.py
# Make sure you don't have a duplicate variable declaration.
DEFAULT_KAFKA_OPTIONS = {
    "bootstrap.servers": "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092",
    "message.max.bytes": 50000000,
    "socket.timeout.ms": 1000,
    "security.protocol": "PLAINTEXT", # Valid options are PLAINTEXT, SSL, SASL_PLAINTEXT, SASL_SSL
    # If you don't use any of these options below, you can remove them or set them to `None`.
    "sasl.mechanism": "PLAIN", # Valid options are PLAIN, SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512. Other mechanism might be unavailable.
    "sasl.username": "username",
    "sasl.password": "password",
    "ssl.ca.location": "/path/to/ca.pem",
    "ssl.certificate.location": "/path/to/client.pem",
    "ssl.key.location": "/path/to/client.key",
}
```

## Snuba

> Although Snuba also uses confluent-kafka under the hood, not every configuration option is available. Modify your `docker-compose.yml` file like so:

Reviewer: Let's encourage the use of `docker-compose.override.yml` instead

```suggestion
Although Snuba also uses confluent-kafka under the hood, not every configuration option is available. Modify your `docker-compose.override.yml` file as:
```

Author: I personally modify the original docker compose file, create another git branch on top of it. Everytime there's a new release, I'll merge the upstream release tag onto my branch.

Reviewer: More ammunition for my "this should be a patch file in the repo" suggestion below 💪🏻

```yaml
x-snuba-defaults: &snuba_defaults
  # ...
  environment:
    # ...
    DEFAULT_BROKERS: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    KAFKA_SECURITY_PROTOCOL: "plaintext" # Valid options are PLAINTEXT, SSL, SASL_PLAINTEXT, SASL_SSL. SSL is not supported for rust-consumer.
    KAFKA_SSL_CA_PATH:
    KAFKA_SSL_CERT_PATH:
    KAFKA_SSL_KEY_PATH:
    KAFKA_SASL_MECHANISM: "PLAIN" # Valid options are PLAIN, SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512.

>     KAFKA_SASL_USERNAME: "username"
>     KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD: "password"

Reviewer: Let's indicate that `username` and `password` should be replaced with your own values? Same applies to `sentry.conf.py` code example above.
```suggestion
    KAFKA_SASL_USERNAME: "<username>"
    KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD: "<password>"
```

```

> If you encounter any failing startup, try to use `consumer` instead of `rust-consumer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter any failures during installation or startup, try to use `consumer` instead of `rust-consumer`.
```

Also, _how_ are we supposed to use `consumer` instead of `rust-consumer`? A link at least?

Author: Oh right, might link a GitHub issue to this.

## Relay

> Modify your `relay/config.yml` file like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify your `relay/config.yml` file as:
```

```yaml
processing:
  kafka_config:
    - {name: "bootstrap.servers", value: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"}
    - {name: "message.max.bytes", value: 50000000} # 50MB
    - {name: "security.protocol", value: "PLAINTEXT"}
    - {name: "sasl.mechanism", value: "PLAIN"}
    - {name: "sasl.username", value: "username"}
    - {name: "sasl.password", value: "password"}
    - {name: "ssl.ca.location", value: "/path/to/ca.pem"}
    - {name: "ssl.certificate.location", value: "/path/to/client.pem"}
    - {name: "ssl.key.location", value: "/path/to/client.key"}
```

## Vroom

> As of the time of writing, Vroom does not support any kind of authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, Vroom does not support any kind of authentication.
```

> Modify your `docker-compose.yml` file like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify your `docker-compose.override.yml` file as:
```

Reviewer: Ping

```yaml
vroom:
  # ...
  environment:
    # ...
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_PROFILING: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_OCCURRENCES: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_SPANS: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
```

When [vroom#530](https://github.com/getsentry/vroom/pull/530) is merged, you can use authentication. You will need to modify your `docker-compose.yml` file like so:

```yaml
vroom:
  # ...
  environment:
    # ...
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_PROFILING: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_OCCURRENCES: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS_SPANS: "kafka-node1:9092,kafka-node2:9092,kafka-node3:9092"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SECURITY_PROTOCOL: "plaintext" # Valid options are PLAINTEXT, SSL, SASL_PLAINTEXT, SASL_SSL
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SSL_CA_PATH: ""
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SSL_CERT_PATH: ""
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SSL_KEY_PATH: ""
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SASL_MECHANISM: "PLAIN" # Valid options are PLAIN, SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512.

>     SENTRY_KAFKA_SASL_USERNAME: "username"
>     SENTRY_KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD: "password"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SASL_USERNAME: "<username>"
    SENTRY_KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD: "<password>"
```

Also, at this point I'm thinking maybe this whole thing should be a `.patch` file they can apply or even lives in the repo and we test for it somehow? Otherwise this would easily become a big hurdle and go out of date/non-functional.

What do you think?

Author: But a question: Where should we store these patch files? On the docs? As a static assets?

Reviewer: As one of the end users and maintainers of the self-hosted repo, I think that's a question for you to answer best 😃

Author: Hahaha. Yeah, I'll come up with something.
